CONCEPTS AND LOGICS:

Invoice:
       Received from supplier for purchased goods.

Types of Invoice:
1.Standard
2.prepayment
3.credit memo
4.debit memo
5.Withholding tax

Matching Approvals:
1.Two way : po and invoice
2.Three way : po,invoice,receipt
3.Four way : po,invoice,receipt,supplier acknowledgment

Void: Reverse the accounting and payment records.Status of paid invoice reset to unpaid.

Invoice actions:
1.None : payment will canceled and Invoice will open for payment again.
2.Hold : payment will canceled and invoice in hold state.
3.Cancel :both payment and invoice will canceled.

Hold : Hold the payment to pay.

Validation of invoice:
*Auto hold to exception invoice.
Cancel invoive : Cancel only unpaid,invalidated invoice,
not have any payment or accounting holds.
Delete invoice : delete when invoice does not match with PO and line should not created.

Accounts type:
1.Assets
2.Liability
3.Equity
4.Expense
5.Revenue

Prepayment:
          *Making an advance payment to a supplier for goods and services.
          *It is type of invoice apply to outstanding amount to reduce the invoice amount.
Prepayment types:
          *Temporary(catering hotel deposite-depends on invoice).
          *Permanent(lease deposite-doesn't depends on invoice).
Invoice Corrections:
      Difference between orginal price,quantity or amount and new price,quantity or amount.
          *price correction:
          *Quantity correction:
Payment terms:Used to create invoice installments.

Installments:Splitting payment for invoice.

Types of holds:
1.Invoice holds
2.Installment holds
3.Supplier site holds
4.System holds

P2P:
purchasing a product and making payment for that product to supplier is called procure to pay process.

Flow from invoice to GL:
Regarding AP invoice flow and posting to GL, there are two different steps:

1) Create and Validate transaction (part of transactional model)

2) Create accounting and posting to GL (accounting model)

1) Create and Validate transaction

      a. complete invoice data at header, lines and distributions (from manual, import, PO or other source)

      b. check if tax is applicable and calculate the tax

      c. check budget funds if budgetary control is applicable

      d. validate the invoice

Once the invoice has been validated, you cannot delete it.

2) Create accounting and posting to GL

There are three distinct process here:

  a. Create accounting (will create accounting model for transaction in SLA)

  b. Transfer to GL  (accounting entries will be transferred to GL)

  c. Post to GL  (payables journals created in GL will post to GL balance)

You have two ways for accounting model:

- Online (from Invoice actions)

        - Account in Draft (will create only accounting -step a, in Draft mode)

        - Post to GL (will execute all steps a, b, c: accounting , transfer and post to GL)

- using Create Accounting process (you can choose which exactly steps you need: only a, only a and b or all)

If you create accounting entries, but not transfer to GL, you should use separate process to transfer accounting entries to GL: Post Subledger Journal Entries.

Accounting Date = Accounting Date or GL Date of the invoice represent the date in which you want to book the accounting of the invoice.

The accounting date is based on the transaction date for the transactions entered.

GL Transfer Date = Date when invoice journal entries(reporting to auditing) are transferred to GL.

GL Posting Date = Date when journal entries transferred to GL are posted in GL balance.





